add github guidelines doc (#1242)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: github-guidelines.md

# GitHub Guidelines for ACT-R

## New to GitHub?

> GitHub has excellent documentation. If you are new to GitHub, please see their documentation on how to [sign up](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/signing-up-for-github), [navigate](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-files-in-a-repository/navigating-code-on-github), [edit files](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-files-in-a-repository/editing-files-in-another-users-repository) and [reviewing pull requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests). In addition to official GitHub documentation, there are a lot of excellent articles and video's on how to use GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub has excellent documentation. If you are new to GitHub, please see their documentation on how to [sign up](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/signing-up-for-github), [navigate](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-files-in-a-repository/navigating-code-on-github), [edit files](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-files-in-a-repository/editing-files-in-another-users-repository) and [reviewing pull requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests). In addition to official GitHub documentation, there are a lot of excellent articles and videos on how to use GitHub.
```

## For reviewers

> - Submit a review with "changes requested" if any actions are needed from the author

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Submit a review with "changes requested" if any actions are needed from the author.
```

- Submit with "approved" if you agree with the change, unless someone else in your organisation already approved the pull request (1 approval per organisation). This does not prevent you from requesting changes.

> - In addition to checking that the change in the pull request is correct, check whether or not the final call period is indicated correctly in the pull request description

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In addition to checking that the change in the pull request is correct, check whether or not the final call period is indicated correctly in the pull request description.
```

> - In addition to checking that the change in the pull request is correct, check whether or not the final call period is indicated correctly in the pull request description

Reviewer 2: This is the first place we mention the term final call. It will be definitely worth adding a note on what is final call & why we follow it as a precursor to this paragraph, or a reference to our process documentation.

> - Keep your feedback relevant to the pull request. If you have feedback unrelated to the pull request, open an issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Keep your feedback relevant to the pull request. If you have feedback unrelated to the pull request, [open an issue](https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/issues/new).
```

This might make easier for people who are not familiar with GitHub to open an issue straight away.

## For pull request authors

- Keep changes in the pull request about one topic only.

> - When updating your pull request, unless it is editorial, dismiss all reviews

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When updating your pull request, unless it is editorial, dismiss all reviews.
```

> - When updating your pull request, unless it is editorial, dismiss all reviews.

Reviewer: Should we add " and re-request a review from the same reviewers." ?

- Indicate the final call period in the pull request description:

>   - 2 weeks for a new rule, or for major changes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 2 weeks for a new rule, or for major changes.
```

>   - 1 week for smaller changes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 1 week for smaller changes.
```

  - final call can be skipped for changes that do not change the meaning of the rule and don't change or remove test cases.

> - Review your own pull requests before you request changes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Review your own pull requests before you request changes.
```

- Use the "reviewers wanted" label when the rule is ready for review.

> - For final calls, add the apprpriate final call label, send an e-mail to the ACT-R mailing list, and remove the "reviewers wanted" label

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For final calls, add the appropriate final call label, send an e-mail to the ACT-R mailing list, and remove the "reviewers wanted" label.
```

> - For final calls, add the apprpriate final call label, send an e-mail to the ACT-R mailing list, and remove the "reviewers wanted" label

Reviewer 2: can we add a mailto anchor - to the ACT-R mailing list here?

> **note**: If you do not have write access, you will not be able to add labels. Moderators are fairly pro-active about adding labels. If you find you need a label added, please ask the chair of the CG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you do not have write access, you will not be able to add labels. Moderators are fairly pro-active about adding labels. If you find you need a label added, please ask the chair of the CG.
```

## For people with write access

> - Don't edit or delete other people's posts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Don't edit or delete other people's posts.
```

> - Don't update, merge or close other people's pull requests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Don't update, merge or close other people's pull requests.
```

> - Don't close other people's issues, unless you merged a pull request that completely resolves the issue.

Reviewer 4: We should update the PR template at the same time to reflect this change.

Author: I think that should go in a separate PR

If any of these need to happen, ask the ACT-R chair instead.

## GitHub Permissions

> - By default, ACT-Rules members will not be made collaborators on Github. Everyone will still be able to review pull requests. But pull requests can not be approved, and new pull requests can only be created through a fork.

Reviewer 2: The usage of the word members is quite confusing. I think ACT-R participants would be better.

> - By default, ACT-Rules participants will not be made collaborators on Github. Everyone will still be able to review pull requests. But pull requests can not be approved, and new pull requests can only be created through a fork.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- By default, ACT-Rules participants will not be made collaborators on Github. Pull requests can not be approved. New pull requests can only be created via a code fork.
Everyone will still be able to review pull requests.
```
Removing the "but" and finishing with a positive.

> - ACT-Rules participants who are writing rules, or who are actively reviewing rules can be given "read" access to the repository. This enables us to assign issues and pull requests to them. Read access will be revoked if someone leaved the community group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ACT-Rules participants who are writing rules, or who are actively reviewing rules can be given "read" access to the repository. This enables us to assign issues and pull requests to them. Read access will be revoked if someone leaves the community group.
```

> - ACT-Rules participants who are writing rules, or who are actively reviewing rules can be given "read" access to the repository. This enables us to assign issues and pull requests to them. Read access will be revoked if someone leaves the community group.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- ACT-Rules participants who are writing rules or actively reviewing rules can be given "read" access to the repository. This enables us to assign issues and pull requests to them. Read access will be revoked if someone leaves the community group.
```

> - Frequent contributors can be given write access upon request, and provided they have authored or reviewed up to three rules in the past year. The ACT-Rules chair will regularly review the list if people with write access and can revoke write access if they feel it is no longer necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Frequent contributors can be given write access upon request, and provided they have authored or reviewed up to three rules in the past year. The ACT-Rules chair will regularly review the list of people with write access and can revoke write access if they feel it is no longer necessary.
```
